So the two things I've shown you so
far MongoDB and
Postgre are very general
purpose kinds of databases.
As in like, if you're gonna be writing
a new app tomorrow there's decent
chance you're gonna use one of these too,
right?
They're meant to be very flexible.
They're meant to fit
nearly every use case,
they're obviously very powerful databases.
We're gonna get into one that's
a more specialized use case.
So you're not gonna use a graph database
for your everyday e-commerce website,
for example.
You're gonna be using it probably in
conjunction with another database.
You're gonna be using graph databases
with another database for the most part.
So graph databases are more niche, they're
more intended to solve a specific problem
and less meant to be general-purpose,
right?
This is not meant to power
your e-commerce website.
So the example that we're gonna use today
is kind of the classic graph database
kind of example problem,
which is movies and actors, right?
And we'll kind of get into how that works.
So, let's get into some
of the terminologies.
Again, this is one of those things where
I use the terms interchangeably, and I'm
very sorry about it, but it's also just
kind of how this is organized in my brain.
And it's probably useful for you to hear
all the terminologies mixed together cuz
that's kind of how it ends up working.
So the first thing we'll talk about in
a graph database is a node or an entity.
The correct term for Neo4j, which is
the name of the graph database that we're
gonna be looking at today is a node,
but sometimes you might
hear me call it an entity.
A node is just a thing.
It's basically a row or
a document in a graph database.
It, yeah represents a thing.
So in our case, if we're looking
at movies and people, right,
those are gonna be the two different
kinds of nodes that we're gonna have.
Those are both going to be
considered nodes, right?
There's gonna be a person node,
and there's gonna be a movie node.
Something that's peculiar to Neo4j
is one node can actually be multiple
different things.
So let's say instead of having just
a person label as they're called,
you can have one person be both an actor
label, or actress label or director label.
I node can have multiple
different kinds of labels.
In this particular case,
the only two labels that we're gonna
be looking at today are persons, right?
Which will represent both actor,
actresses and directors.
But you could also have a label for
each one of those depending on kind of
how you choose to solve that problem.
And then, the other label will be a movie,
and a movie is kind of a thing, right?
So you can think of nodes as documents or
rows in a graph database.
Now the interesting thing and
where graph databases really kind
of get their power is they have
this things called relationships.
Or frequently these
are called edges as well.
The correct term for
Neo4j is relationship.
And it just describes this node is
related to this other node, and
we're gonna draw some sort of connecting
line between the two of those things.
And we'll kind of visualize
this here in just a second.
That's the power of graph databases,
is you can describe this kind of graph,
like a web of relationships
between different things.
A really good use case for
graph databases, and
probably where they really got pushed
forward a lot, is social networks, right?
So you can imagine like on LinkedIn,
you're connected to this person, this
person is connected to that person and
that person is connected to that person.
And that's how LinkedIn
knows how to recommend.
Is like, hey, you probably know this
person because you know these 10
people and they all know this person and
they're connected to them and you're not.
Decent chance that as so many people
in your network know this person,
you also probably know that person.
So that's where these kind of
interesting insights of connections can
kind of lead to these insights.
Yeah, using these relationships.
One thing about Neo4j,
that's again kind of peculiar to Neo4j is
every relationship is directional, right?
So it's not that just, well, let's
use an example from a social network.
On Facebook when you are connected
to someone, you're both friends.
Like you can't be connect to someone
you both have to acknowledge
we are both friends.
That relationship has no direction, right?
I'm friends with Mark,
Mark is friends with me, and
we can't have that be one way.
Compare that to something like Twitter.
If I follow Ayesha, right?
She doesn't necessarily
have to follow me back.
That's a directional relationship.
So in Neo4j, all of these relationships
have directions associated with them.
And sometimes you can just ignore these
directions if you don't really care about
them, but every relationship
is going to have a direction.
So in this particular case, if we were
describing the relationship between me and
Ayesha on Twitter, and
we both follow each other.
We would actually need two
different relationships.
One, from me to her and one from her to
me to fully describe that relationship.
Whereas in Facebook,
you just need one relationship because
there's only one way that
relationship can go, cool.
So, there's things called properties or
attributes,
I probably will mix up those terms.
Cuz they're relatively similar,
but in this particular case,
they're gonna be the same thing.
Every relationship and every node can have
properties associated with them, right?
So, for example for
talking about like an actress,
like we have Charlize Theron or
something like that.
She can have a birthday.
She can have,
I don't know hair color, eye color,
those kinds of those will be
attributes of that particular node.
And then a relationship
can also have a node.
You can also have if Charlize Theron
acted in Arrested Development,
that's what I'm watching right now.
That's why it's top of mind.
It can have like the role
that she played in it.
It can have the year that that happened.
It can have the episodes that she was in,
right?
So those are kind of the attributes
that a relationship can have as well.
So both entities and
relationships can both have properties.
So that's kind of the high level
terminology of what goes into a graph
database.
We'll start kind of getting into it,
and using them and
sort of become a bit more concrete.
We're gonna be using Neo4j,
that's kind of like the de facto.
If you're gonna use an open
source graph database,
it's kind of one that people reach for the
most or at least it's the most well known.
There are other ones,
there are other graph databases,
you can make MongoDB and Postgres
kind of acts like graph databases.
There's a lot of different
ways to accomplish this.
And then there's obviously,
things like again, Cosmos DB and
some of those cloud based graph databases
that are available to you as well.